README.md, before:

# Gravity — Flight Simulator✈️

Defy expectations. Defy gravity.🧹

https://slevin48.github.io/gravity/



https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/49a533f5-e1fd-40cd-a4f9-dcf92854323c



Inspired by the soaring spirit of "Defying Gravity" from Wicked, Gravity is a tiny flight simulator built with React + Vite — a playful demo where you pilot a craft through simple physics and enjoy the feeling of lift.

## Overview

Gravity is a small React app demonstrating a flight simulation toy: lift, thrust, and gentle gravity combine for a satisfying, arcade-like flight experience. It’s ideal for a playful experiment in physics and UI.

## Features

- Lightweight React + Vite app for instant feedback and fast dev loops
- Simple physics model for lift, thrust, and drag
- Keyboard controls for intuitive piloting
- Ready for a screen recording to showcase the demo

## TODO

- Add flight data recording mode
- Add flight replaying mode from csv trajectory

## Getting Started

- Prerequisites: `node` (v16+ recommended) and `npm` or `pnpm`/`yarn`.

1. Install dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

2. Run the dev server

```bash
npm run dev
```

3. Open the app

Visit `http://localhost:5173` (Vite will print the exact URL).

## Controls

- W / Up Arrow: Thrust / Pitch up
- S / Down Arrow: Reduce thrust / Pitch down
- A / Left Arrow: Roll/turn left
- D / Right Arrow: Roll/turn right
- Space: Quick boost (if implemented)

Tip: Use a screen recorder (OBS, macOS screen capture, or your platform's tool) to capture a short demo — then place it at the top of this README.

## Inspiration

This project takes its attitude from Wicked’s anthem of flight: bold, defiant, and full of possibility. The UI and wording are intentionally playful — think sparkles and wide open skies.

## Contributing

Feel free to open issues or PRs. Ideas to explore:

- Polished physics (wind, turbulence)
- Camera effects and HUD polish
- Touch / mobile controls
- Replay / GIF export for quick demos

## License

This project is open — see the `LICENSE` file in the repo.

## Credits

- Built with React + Vite. Template cleaned and adapted for this flight demo.
- Inspired by Wicked — musical and metaphorical inspiration only.
- Broom icon by [Tonia Reinhardt](https://openmoji.org/library/emoji-1F9F9/) (CC BY-SA 4.0)

Enjoy defying gravity.🪄

Commit message:

Enhance README with flight data replay videos

README.md, after:

# Gravity — Flight Simulator✈️

Defy expectations. Defy gravity.🧹

https://slevin48.github.io/gravity/



https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/49a533f5-e1fd-40cd-a4f9-dcf92854323c



Inspired by the soaring spirit of "Defying Gravity" from Wicked, Gravity is a tiny flight simulator built with React + Vite — a playful demo where you pilot a craft through simple physics and enjoy the feeling of lift.

## Overview

Gravity is a small React app demonstrating a flight simulation toy: lift, thrust, and gentle gravity combine for a satisfying, arcade-like flight experience. It’s ideal for a playful experiment in physics and UI.

## Features

- Lightweight React + Vite app for instant feedback and fast dev loops
- Simple physics model for lift, thrust, and drag
- Keyboard controls for intuitive piloting
- Ready for a screen recording to showcase the demo
- Flight data recording mode



https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ae9e9144-7280-46f6-a13b-6118357a1683



## Flight Data Replay (MATLAB)

- Use `matlab/gravity_flight_dashboard.m` to replay a CSV exported from the in-app recorder.
- From MATLAB, call:

```matlab
gravity_flight_dashboard('/path/to/gravity-flight-2025-12-07T00-31-32.681Z.csv')
```

If you omit the path, MATLAB prompts you to pick a CSV and launches an interactive dashboard with playback controls, 3D visualization, and live telemetry readouts.



https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/23184851-2b94-4248-8e35-c29f2e6a08b2



## TODO


- Add flight replaying mode from csv trajectory

  

## Getting Started

- Prerequisites: `node` (v16+ recommended) and `npm` or `pnpm`/`yarn`.

1. Install dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

2. Run the dev server

```bash
npm run dev
```

3. Open the app

Visit `http://localhost:5173` (Vite will print the exact URL).

## Controls

- W / Up Arrow: Thrust / Pitch up
- S / Down Arrow: Reduce thrust / Pitch down
- A / Left Arrow: Roll/turn left
- D / Right Arrow: Roll/turn right
- Space: Quick boost (if implemented)

Tip: Use a screen recorder (OBS, macOS screen capture, or your platform's tool) to capture a short demo — then place it at the top of this README.

## Inspiration

This project takes its attitude from Wicked’s anthem of flight: bold, defiant, and full of possibility. The UI and wording are intentionally playful — think sparkles and wide open skies.

## Contributing

Feel free to open issues or PRs. Ideas to explore:

- Polished physics (wind, turbulence)
- Camera effects and HUD polish
- Touch / mobile controls
- Replay / GIF export for quick demos

## License

This project is open — see the `LICENSE` file in the repo.

## Credits

- Built with React + Vite. Template cleaned and adapted for this flight demo.
- Inspired by Wicked — musical and metaphorical inspiration only.
- Broom icon by [Tonia Reinhardt](https://openmoji.org/library/emoji-1F9F9/) (CC BY-SA 4.0)

Enjoy defying gravity.🪄
